all right this is four-time Miss Olympia
Jay Cutler we're here at muscle and
strength headquarters in their home gym
here and now we're going to demonstrate
the leg press which everyone in anyone
that works out knows how to do a leg
press but do you know how to do it
correctly is the question so I'm going
to explain a couple of tips here on how
to really do the foot placements and
where to target the legs and weight at
target obviously more of the quads less
of the hamstrings I think a lot of
people have that that misconception they
think they just get into the Machine and
it does the work but you really have to
pay attention to what you're doing and
really try to put focus obviously it's a
quad exercise so I'm going to add a
little weight to this nothing crazy not
the 10 or 15 plates that you normally
see you know the Jay Cutler videos
online and this is kind of unique thing
because now I've been able to been able
to come over here to muscle and
strengthen and obviously see their new
facility here and give give a better
idea now on how to perform exercise
around then just do them and see Jay go
through the motions so what I always
don't focus on with doing legs I always
do kind of a warm-up with a leg
extension machine and then I'll walk
over to a leg press it's usually always
my second movement and I want to focus
mainly on the quads everyone knows I'm
known for my big quads and a lot of
detail so what I'm going to show here is
my foot placement okay as you get higher
up on the platform which people tend to
do you're going to focus more on the
hamstrings which is the back of the legs
and the glutes obviously that's not
really what I'm trying to focus on so
I'm going to keep my feet low on the
platform okay yes higher is going to
make it a lot easier to press a lot of
weights and we know a lot of the guys
even some of the girls in the gym like
to focus on pressing a lot of weights to
impress people we're gonna focus on
really just trying to do the work get
the most contraction out of the legs
okay so my suggestion
is okay the feet should be obviously
platforms vary in size you want to keep
your feet on a lower position of the
platform not super high this is going to
work more the hamstring unless that's
what you're trying to focus on I would
focus more on keeping the legs down in
the lower okay and not much more than
shoulder-width apart I mean you see a
lot of people spreading their legs out
okay this is going to focus on more of
the hamstrings again you want to keep
them at about shoulder shoulder width
okay I like to keep my my toes pointed
slightly outward okay this is going to
allow contraction on the quads
okay unlocked o'clock okay feet flat and
you have to make sure as you travel
through the motion the feet stay flat
there's too many people that roll on to
roll onto the balls of their feet okay
all the way down okay and up okay
now remember a lot of times coming down
you see a lot of people get on the leg
press and they do this kind of motion
that's not going to work okay
you want to come down to the point where
your your glutes don't rise off the
platform but you want to come down
enough to really get a contraction upper
quads and up okay sometimes people like
to hold on to the sides here okay the
reps should be steady and really really
just trying to contract the quads
control the downward motion obvious
explode up okay
not to the point where you actually walk
the legs out but really keep tension on
the quads that's very very important
it's the tension a lot of exercises you
don't need necessarily need to lock out
but keep tension on the quads especially
the upper quad so down now I complete
this for about ten or twelve repetitions
always my suggestion
okay smooth and steady really get that
contraction as you see I'm not going to
too deep but just enough to really
really get a good stretch on the quad
and up
okay so foot position super super
important really keep your feet low on
the platform it's going to hit more of
the upper quad and of course end up with
quads like that